# Getting this to work

This is intended for students in the RIT Software Performance Engineering course. But who knows? It might work for other people too.

For us, this is designed to work on Nitron, an OpenBSD server. 

1. Clone this repo to somewhere in your home directory on nitron. 
2. `cd` into `ruby/ruby_c_extension/Hello`
3. Run `make` to build the C library
4. Run `ruby ../main.rb` (if you are still in the Hello directory - where you execute this doesn't matter)
5. If the output showed "Hello, World" and a 20, then it worked!!
6. Now step through the C code to figure out how all this worked.

For the assignment, you are welcome to copy this code into your own repo. Adapt at your own will.

When you do copy it over, please rename things away from Hello, because words have meaning and your code should mean what it says.

# Notes

Here are some explanations of what's there

* `extconf.rb` is something we wrote to generate the Makefile. This will probably create different Makefiles on other systems.
* `Makefile` was generated by me (Andy) by runing `extconf.rb` and no other modifications were made
* `Hello.c` is where most of my work happened. I had to pay close attention to the Ruby docs to make this work. Compile constantly!!
* `main.rb` is where I made the call from Ruby, hopefully self-explanatory


# Resources
These are helpful sites to guide you through what's happening here

* [Ruby Docs on Extensions](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/2.4.0/extension_rdoc.html)
* [Hello, World this was based on](http://www.rubyinside.com/how-to-create-a-ruby-extension-in-c-in-under-5-minutes-100.html)
* [Another helpful article](https://silverhammermba.github.io/emberb/c/)
